### Interview Transcription:

Speaker 2: So the first thing is, how did you start working with Adobe Substance?
Speaker 1: I was a student in SAE. Do you know SAE?
That's a private school, like a global private school, but there's also one in Geneva. And there's a field dedicated to video games, like game art basically. And that was my cursus. So I did three or four, three years in the game art studying. And in the end, I went to military because that's mandatory in Switzerland. So I went shooting in the mountains. But then after it, I was looking for a job. But the middle of the COVID, so it was a bit complicated, etc., etc. But at some point, I was doing a contest. Do you know maybe Meet Mat?
That's a free contest from Substance Painter. Like, ah, yeah, that's the mascot of Substance. Like a little dude, like a toy. And the contest is to paint it and make something out of it with Substance Painter. But that actually wasn't the contest. It was another one. That was a contest named the Shoecase contest and basically, that's the same thing as Meet Mat. They gave us a shoe, a 3D shoe, a sneaker, and we had to custom it in Substance Painter. And I actually won the first place. And after that, they contact me and they offered me a job in the Substance team. And to be fair, I also knew someone in the team. So that wasn't just the contest, I also knew someone. But, yeah, that was the first step. Like winning the contest was the first step in the in the team.
Speaker 2: And to show your work.
Speaker 1: Yeah, because even with a contact, if you can't No, if you can't prove you're actually good with it. Because apparently, it's they're saying, not mine, but it's really complicated to find something someone, sorry, really like is like that really know the software. Like that really knows Substance Painter. And like the contest was a proof that I know the software and I know how to do great things with Painter. And now it's been three years. It will be three years in February that I'm in the Substance team. And yeah, that's pretty much it, I guess. And I like it so much. Like, I'm not doing everyday art because we're still doing a software, not doing entertainment. Like, we are in the entertainment field, but we're not working on a video game or a VFX or stuff like that. We're working on a software. So I'm not everyday doing art. But like the conditions, the salary, etc., are so good that yeah, I love being in Substance. That's pretty much it. That's not as big an experience as you have, but it's Maybe it's more specific. Maybe, not sure.
Speaker 2: But do you have some small projects as well to learn maybe new tools that go out of? 
Speaker 2: Like, on my personal side, I'm always trying to keep practicing, trying new software, etc. Sometimes it's difficult to find the time to do it. But still, I like to experiment with new software. Like, I wanted to learn Houdini recently. 
Amazing, but so complicated. But I think it's so powerful. Like, I love the nodal workflow, like working with nodes, and you can do 3D objects, you can do VFX, you can do so many things with Houdini. I want to try it more, but it's difficult to find the time and even when I do, the next time I'm practicing, I've forgotten everything, so it's a bit complicated. But still, I'm doing projects like the basics like modeling, texturing, rendering, modeling something with Blender, rendering, well, texturing, Painter of course, because still I'm I mean, I'm a Substance guy now.
Like there's Mari. Mari is pretty good, but very different, a very different workflow. I think Substance Painter is the funniest to use. The most fun to use. Yeah, funniest. But, yeah, so I have some project on my personal end that I do with different softwares than only specifically the Substance ones, but also for the company from times to times, as instance, the advisors to try Marmoset Toolbag like for texturing, because now like since three years, four years ago, they have now texturing tools inside Marmoset Toolbag. So that's a challenger of Substance. So it's good to try the application. And also like if we are doing demos or things like that, quite often we end up also showing other softwares because sometimes that's not even a competition. For instance, Cinema 4D is doing something very different than what we are doing. So when we are doing demos and people are interested in how they can implement something in their workflow, Substance is one of the many. So we always ended up showing them, "Oh, you can, I don't know, do your modeling in Blender." So we show them Blender or in Cinema 4D, do your rendering somewhere somewhere else. So yeah, I'm still working with other tier apps and not only Substance apps. Basically. It was a long answer for I could have been shorter.
Speaker 2: No, but it's yeah, it's perfect, and it's really what we do. Usually you have, if you work with 3D, you have at least from five to ten other softwares in your list that you're going to use.
Speaker 1: No, yeah, that's for sure. Because there's not like a main software that can do everything. Well, I mean, I guess you can do a lot of things in Blender, for instance. But usually, you don't want to like, for the texturing, you don't want to stay in Blender, usually. 
So the end goal like that's the only purpose, right? That's the end goal. Like if you want to make a video game, you want an object that has a great texture that is placed in an environment, so you'll need an Unreal Engine or something else. You need to texture it in say Painter, and modeling it somewhere else, maybe ZBrush or maybe doing the hard surface in Blender, Cinema 4D, Maya, etc., and then bring it into ZBrush to add some extra details and then texturing into Painter. So like if you're a 3D artist, yeah, as you said, you usually end up knowing a lot of softwares. Which is maybe different for others, I've never thought of it, but like, if you do logos, maybe you're only using Illustrator and that's fine, but...
Speaker 1: Do you have an impression that people use more Painter or Designer or Sampler for specific maybe specific workflows or specific main goals?
Speaker 2: Yeah, well, Painter is a software dedicated to texturing an object, where Designer that's not the it can do pretty much a lot of things, but usually people use it to create material that then you will use inside Painter. Like Painter is dedicated to having, how do you say that, a main object, hero asset. That's the name. You have your hero asset, like if you're working in the like for a Coca-Cola, you have your Coca-Cola bottle. That's Painter you want to work with, because you want to make some specific details to the bottle of Coca-Cola, but for the glass of the bottle, maybe you will work inside Designer and create the material inside Designer. So usually, Designer creates tools for texturing and in Painter you texture. That's kind of the difference. Well, I don't have the numbers I'm going to give you. They are wrong because I don't have those, but like, I'd say that maybe 90% of the people using Designer are using it to create material. Now that that being said, you can do like, in Designer you can do the work that you are doing in Painter, but that's more complicated. Painter is dedicated to this, so it's easier to use Painter and more fun for sure.
Speaker 1: And for Sampler, do you feel it has a specific, usually specific goal as well?
Speaker 2: Now it does, but back in the days, the first goal of Sampler, which back in the days was Alchemist, was to make an easier to use version of Designer, like more intuitive version of Designer, because Designer you already need to have the basics of 3D, that sometimes are hard to to have, like know what a channel is, what a normal map is, what height is, how it behaves in a 3D shader. So Sampler was made to simplify all that, like having a layered workflow of creating material. But the more the software evolved, the more it went in the direction of sampling things. That's where its name Sampler comes from now. So you take 3D pictures, you put it in Sampler, and then you have it in digital, like you have a digital material of your picture. We have removed it recently, but also you take pictures of an object and then in Sampler, you can have it like, you can turn into a 3D model. So the idea to sample reality into digital. But now if we are looking at the users, it's mostly dedicated to the fashion industry and that's where we are heading. We have seen that most people that are using Sampler are from the fashion industry, so we are dedicating the tools for the fashion. And we're still going in that direction. So I'd say that the difference compared to Designer or Painter is that it's basically the users and so we are dedicating tools for those users. Like I forgot the embroidery filter was such a success back in the days and we made this for Sampler for the fashion industry. Now the filter is also in Painter and Designer, but it was made for the fashion industry and for Sampler. And yeah, so basically we have more features dedicated to the fashion industry. I've said fashion industry a lot, but you get it.
I used Sampler specifically when I have physical samples and I use it to digitalize. And now we also have a partnership with HP. I don't know if you have seen it, but we have a pizza oven looking object like a pyramid where you can open it and put one's real sample, like a Yes, for 3D scanning. Yeah, exactly. The results are crazy good. So that's basically a scanner, a 3D scanner, and the results are crazy good. So also dedicated to the fashion industry. It's working directly with Sampler, like the HP Capstis. That's the name of it. The HP Capstis is only working with Sampler. That's a collaboration between Substance and HP also for the fashion industry. But it's quite new. I don't know if it will have the success it deserves, but we'll see.
From what I heard from the commercial team, the cool thing with that is that the first thing it's really smaller than other 3D scanners, like well, it's still quite big, but I mean, compared to the competition, that's pretty small. And also, for me it's a lot. It's very expensive, like between 10 and 20,000$, but apparently, it's very cheap compared to the industry.
Speaker 2: Yeah, so that's the main strength of the HP Capstis. Easy to use and cheap compared to the competition. And would you, do you have a different definition for what is a texture, a map, and a material? 
Speaker 1: For me, a material like it's a name for a bunch of textures. Like, texture is usually an image, like PNG, JPEG, or EXR or whatever, that defines a channel from a material. So, what defines a material is different channels, like a base color, which will define the color, depending on the shader, but usually a base color, like a metalness or metallic or roughness, normal map, height map, etc. So, the material is basically a set of different textures. Textures are the different channels. Well, are data defining one specific channel of the material. So, that's an image containing data to define a channel from the material. And a map for me, that's the same thing as a texture, in my opinion. Maybe there's really a difference, but I don't have it if there is one. Like a map is just a usual, I use, for me the difference I would say, usually you have a UV map. And why is it a map? It's because you place UV on a very specific square and so that's a map. Like, this point on the square is this part on the UV map, so this point on the 3D object. So, I'd say that's why the name map is existing, but like, if I have a basic shader in Blender, I'm editing the color, I wouldn't say I'm editing the map. Like, because there's no map, it's just one color. It's just one pixel. Like, it's blue or orange, but that's not a map. Like, you don't have a specific place of the map with specific color for a specific part of the object. So, there's not really a map, there's just a channel, a texture, but maybe I wouldn't say texture either. I don't know. For me, material and texture, that's very different. For me, map and texture, that's a bit more blurry to me.
I think it's just like, with times, people are using different, like, even, you know, sometimes there are, I don't know the name in English, but patent, like, when we created like UV tiles in Substance Painter, so the possibility to work on several UDIMs, the word UDIM we we couldn't use it, like legally, we couldn't use it. So we use the word UV tile, which is very cumbersome, because like, for all the users, they don't care, like that's UDIM, like UDIM is and is used in all the industry now. So it's pretty annoying that only Autodesk has the right on the word UDIM, because other companies has to use different words and at some point, you have different words for for the same thing or maybe, I don't know, like Painter will create a subtle difference, so the word UV tile is maybe not exactly the same thing as UDIM, so it's starting to be confusing. And I guess like map and texture and in texture, sorry, that's a bit of the same thing, but I'm not sure, maybe.
Speaker 2: If you, if you had to, uh, program an AI to automatically do all the texturing in a 3D model, how would you explain to it the technical properties that you need to, you need to pass to people when you're trying to make a realistic design? Like, a texture or a, well, that's very different to me. Yeah, yeah, but more about the technical properties. If you could not, for example, if you had to make a material through AI, but you cannot correct it later by yourself. So it needs to be 100% AI. How would you, how do you think, what kind of explanation would you have to give in order to get this?
Speaker 1: I mean, if I want to really clean material, etc., I don't think I would really go into the haptic side of the material, to be honest. It would be more dedicated like, the first thing I would say is tileable. Because, well, I think, like the example I gave with Sampler and Firefly, it wouldn't work because it's at first tileable, because it's dedicated to this, but if I use the AI, sorry, globally, I would say, first thing, it's tileable. Then I would use words like it's an old material or very recent, it's clean, like it's an object for for the industry, it's an object for entertainment, like more I don't have other words in English, but like more duplicated, like damaged, or is it more polished, you know, those those kind of things. And then, yeah, I would use some words like the grunge. Is it grungy? And I think I would once again use a specific channel, like the height should have a lot of variation. Like the height should have a lot of should be grungy. I think the word grungy is awesome. Should be grungy, I don't know. And I think that's pretty much it. I'm not that used to AI. I've tried it sometimes with Sampler, I mean, AI in 3D. I've tried it in Sampler for the sake of it, but I think the results right now, at least currently, are not that great. So I stick to the good old 3D designer.
Speaker 2: How, how does it work more or less, the AI in Sampler?
Speaker 1: Well, the workflow is pretty basic. You have a window that's linked to Firefly. You give him a prompt, like in French or English or whatever language you want. Then it will produce I think four images. You choose one and then it will make the basic process of creating a PBR material as you are used to doing in Sampler. So that's pretty much something you could do on your own. You can even use something else in Firefly, you can use I don't know, another AI, I don't know a lot of them, but yeah, you can use another AI, import the image into Sampler, make sure it's tileable, and then use the the image to material layer. But the cool thing with Sampler is that it's automatic. So we're doing it inside Sampler. So you give it a prompt and then you have everything with a few clicks you have a result. So, usually you create from zero or can you create on top of an image? Usually from zero. Currently, we don't have an option to work on top of an image. Currently.
Speaker 2: I have a feeling that starting from scratch, completely scratch with AI is always harder. To get to get a real like an object that's consistent.
Speaker 1: I think so. Personally, how I use AI, like with material, I mean, like the generative fill is so good in Photoshop. So I'm doing the good old workflow in Photoshop. So I bring an image, I just offset it by 50% and then I don't know if you have already used that workflow. You offset it, then you duplicate it, and then you have seams on the middle horizontal middle and vertical middle. But with the generative fill, you can correct that seam so clean, like it's so clean. The result is so clean. And it's not just like using the clone tool or stuff like that. It's really generating a correction. So it's so much better than what I was used to when I was in school. So, even if I'm honest, compared to Sampler and the solution we have in Sampler to make it tile, that's so much better in Photoshop with the generative fill. So I think you're maybe right. Maybe it's better to work with something like that you're building yourself or an image or something else and then use AI on top of it. Maybe that's the best way to have a decent result, maybe.
Speaker 2: How would you define touch in video games?
Speaker 1: To me, the first thing I think of, it's maybe not really like an awesome answer, but the controller. That's the first thing. But like, in my opinion, that's a good question actually. I think we can do so much more with controllers. And there is some little stuff that is coming. Like, it's slow, but we are doing some work and we are bringing value to the controller. It's not just a joystick and like a cross button. Now, for instance, the PS5 has a trigger for haptic feedback. Which I think is great, I think it's great. Like, I think the controller and also like all the haptic side of the well, all the little gadget technology that we are bringing into, I was thinking of VR, but into video games, it shouldn't be too cumbersome, but small things can bring so much more to the experience. And for instance, I remember the first time like in The Last of Us they gave us a small sound when the torch was empty. Like I think you can hear it with the controller. The controller makes sounds that tells you the torch in the game is empty and then you have to shake the controller to make it work once again. That's great, that's awesome and that's not cumbersome, like it's just and then it works. And small things like that bring a lot to video games. And the second thing I would think when you say touch like, I know that in VR I've seen some stuff like haptic gloves and you touch an object in VR, you have an haptic feedback. For me in VR, it has a strong interest. Like maybe not as much with the controller, but like in VR, that's much much more interesting because you want to be in the game. While you have a controller, you still have the TV in front of you. So there is a wall between you and the and the and the game. But when you have the headset, it's very different. You want to be in the game as much as you can. You want to have all the feedback visuals like you want to smell, you want everything to be as much as you are in the game as possible. And yeah, that's the first thing I think when you say when you're telling me sorry, when you're telling me touch in video games. That's the first thing I think of. Maybe that's not the best answer, but No, it's an answer actually. Pretty basic like the controller. I don't have anything poetic to say, unfortunately.
