### Interview Transcription:

Holly: I, well, basically wanted to do more technology and I'd had my fashion degree, and I was like, "What do I do now?" Like, I really want to do something techy, and I ended up literally just doing a Master's in Digital Fashion and just basically like exploring everywhere. 
I think when it comes to fashion, I think fashion, you have to look at it, this is very objective, that fashion is really behind in the industry. So, when working in the traditional sense, you're obviously normally working with pen and paper, then when it comes to like Clo 3D and these technologies, it's basically taking all of that and doing it on the computer, but where you can then obviously, instead of having to get an eraser and rub it all out, you know, restart this little section again, or go back to the block, I hate that phrase. Literally, you have to, you know, you can just control Z and move stuff around. So, it really speeds up the design process. And I think as soon as you've got that the foundation of how to do fashion design digitally, so with those, you know, Clo 3D, Browzwear, all these different tools that are out there now, it's very easy to start integrating different tech into it. So, you start playing and going, "How can I bring in AI? Can I explore creating some textures? Can I put that in the software? How does that work?" And then you start going, "Oh, what about Blender? Can I put Blender in it?" And very quickly, you start exploring, you know, hundreds and hundreds of different random pipelines that may or may not, you know, support you later down the line. So, I think there's definitely a, as soon as something becomes digital, I think it just opens up a whole new world of possibilities of what you could do. I think when it comes to, you know, traditional fashion, I think you're very limited in today's terms of what is out there. You end up so stuck being physical that you miss all the opportunities that digital can give you.
Karina: Yeah, that's an interesting point of view, actually. So, yeah, the digital, it's almost like a unlimited sandbox. We can do whatever we want.
Holly: Yeah, and keep getting updates. Every, every, you know, six months a new AI drops, and technology, they, you know, they bring an update. So, you can really maximize what you're doing.
Karina: Very cool. Okay, so, uh, if you are responsible for training an AI to work with digital fashion, uh, how would you explain to it, okay, what is touch so for design?
Holly: So, yeah, this question got me thinking for a while. So, I was just thinking about it. I would take it from a very, like logical point of view. So, basically, looking at like PR maps and basically explaining that touch is effectively like the bumps and ridges for texture, like touch is texture. Um, and so, it's in a specific or repeatable order that these grooves appear that then create repetition that can then represent texture. Because, at the end of the day, that's what touch is. Touch is when, you know, your fingerprints go over something and the ridges start to react to it. That's that's what it is. So, although an AI doesn't have uh touch in that sense, you can explain texture to it and very quickly it understands and texture and touch are kind of symbiotic, you know, they kind of go together.
You start having this almost like relationship with computers and the tech you use in your day-to-day. And it's um, it translates across all fields, particularly when you start looking at, as you say, like immersive environments. When you're thinking about environments, because your brain, when you're developing them, you have to think in 3D all the time about what you're developing. So, you end up developing this like a different language, almost. I think that's such a benefit because then you end up looking at stuff in a different way and approaching it differently. So, I always say, like, since I've been saying it for ages about, and I was like, "I don't think there's the logic behind it to back it." But that's the same with thinking about models and going back to that. I think the term doesn't exist yet. So, I don't know, genuinely, um, so, yeah, I think it's just about finding that correct term. I think that would come through exploration. It might be a sculptural touch. It might be 3D touch. It might be mesh touch in the future because we're working with our hands so much that we, you know, we can almost feel the cubes in our hands. It vibrates when we pick them up. I don't know, you know. So, yeah, I think the term is an enigma in my mind. I can't quite figure it out. So, I don't know. That's my answer. 
Karina: What you said just made me remember, oh, I think it was one of the questions as well, but you use a concept that you talk about spatial design. So, can you explain it a little bit? What do you mean when you say spatial design?
Holly: So, for me, everyone has a different definition of spatial design. Um, I basically think of it as the space in which you're in. So, if you look around a room, and you start once you've got the language in your head of VR, you start seeing things as models, and you think about the 3D-ness. And it's basically about that, how would you put stuff in this room and move it and how is that constructed? And how's that fit? It's basically like, almost like a 4D, you know what I mean, fourth dimension, you're thinking about how would this sit in this space? Um, so, when it comes to spatial design in clothing, it's all about thinking about the object from all angles all at once. And there's no real logic to that, and that sounds really horrible. Um, but it's that thing of, you know, when you're thinking about, as you say, with the lights, and you're thinking, "Oh, that'll be about 30%, you know." The same kind of thing applies, but for models. So, you know, I think about this headline, thinking about what it looks like from the top, bottom, sides, and I haven't even looked at it from the top. You know, it's just kind of I can start to communicate with it almost. And that's what it means, spatial design. So, with fashion, it's about thinking about those different angles, how does it sit? I can think about the textures that I would use, and I know the texture is going to work differently. And it's just it's just once you reach a point of working with a software, you start to understand it, and you understand its limitations, and you just find a new way of co-existing with the software. But that's basically what spatial design is. It's understanding, sort of, all the angles of everything, and understanding why it's placed there, how it's placed there.
Karina: But actually, it makes sense as well. I thought it was really interesting you're saying, "Okay, we need balance in the digital and we should not touch some things." Can you think of some examples of things that you would not like to touch digitally?
Holly: Well, I think it depends on if it's taking away from your experience. So, obviously, there's the classic, you know, I don't want to touch something that's a bit disgusting or, you know, what not. But I think genuinely if it's not adding to the experience, then it shouldn't be in there. So, if, um, like when I'm designing, I don't necessarily want to be touching, sort of, a mannequin and want to be able to move through it to be able to do some of the stuff. And sometimes that's what you need to be able to do. You need to be able to go into a mesh, you know. I mean, I have to hold my breath almost, you know. Um, but that's what I mean, it needs to be implemented correctly. So, it's about that, can I go through an object? Or when I touch it, is it, you know, am I feeling the weight of the fabric? Am I feeling the texture of the fabric? Those are two completely different properties, you know, almost am I almost feeling the color? Is blue warm or is blue cold? And it's that beginning to develop that new language and getting people who understand it to then be able to help develop it. So, I think, I think there is a time and place for touch. Um, sort of like an art museum. Just because there's a pretty painting, doesn't mean you can touch it. And it's that thing of like, you can visually see, and you can imagine the touch, but sometimes you just don't want to touch it. So, I think, I think there is a time and place for it. So, it's like a button, it's on and off. And that that's to do with the tech, as well, because we're not we're not there yet. We don't understand the human nervous system enough to be able to then put that into tech. It would be to do with, um, you know, prosthetics and the development they're doing over there with neuroscience. Um, but it's bringing those ideas, putting it into digital, and then taking that and then putting it into fashion and gaming and you're quite a few years off that yet. But that's because no one's pushing for it, as well. So, it means that, you know, you won't see that for probably at least 10 years, I would say.
So, it's this is what I mean, but it's um, with VR, you know, companies are now starting to look at doing fashion with VR, but that wasn't the conversation that they were having two years ago, and that's because people like me are then coming up and going, "You can do VR in fashion for this tech." And I've come up with a way of doing it. So, you need, sort of, those advocates to go, you know, "I want to be able to touch what I'm doing in VR or augmented reality, whatever whatever platform it is, because this is why it's going to help me." So, yeah.
