# Title: HABITAT

## Key concepts:
        - Textures (micro relief patterns)
        - Digital x Physical touch (hybrid experience)
        - Haptic devices
        
## Research Question: 
                Touching the digital: How to redesign digital touch?
**How to redesign touch through hybrid experiences?**
Touching the digital (Tangible user interface): being able to feel digital textures (haptic devices)

### Resume: 
This research aims to explore the potential of the sense of touch in everyday digital interactions, exploring the physical embodiment of information and how touch is perceived and understood across digital environments (video games, digital prototyping [digital twins] and UI) and its tools.

Through a combination of research in digital textures and materials through case studies, sensory ethnography and speculative design, it investigates the language of touch and proposes new communication channels through "augmented touch".



## Structure:
### Chapter1: Definitions
- What is augmented Touch? Building the definition of Augmented Touch.
- Definition of touch
- What are the propreties (language) of Touch in digital experiences? How are they different from our physical ones?
- In how many ways (and how many other senses) do we use to guide our tactile interaction?
- Texture semantics (human interpretation): How does touch respond to different textures/ How do we interpret different textures characteristics? What kind of information it can convey (emotional/functional)


Semiotics of touch (human-object touch) - sensory alphabet of textures (typology)
What is the language/alphabet of touch (textures). What are its properties? How can they be classified?


## Chapter2: Field Research
### State of the art: What is touch now? What position does it occupy in society?

### Case studies:
#### 1. Video Games
**Minecraft + Death Stranding**

**a) Cartography of Touch** 
- Mapping groups of what can be touched and cannot be touched
- what senses are used in the interaction with those - affordances/feedbacks (can those senses [sensibility] be turned on/off?)

**b) Textures bestiary** 
Map of most touched textures:
- small definition on the texture
- textural proprieties (physical-how user's "feel" them/digital-material propreties)

                *Games/digital twin Presentation: printed flat UVs with special paper/material of physical texture + AR mounted digital texture*

#### 2. Digital Prototyping/Digital Twin
**IKEA/Nike/Hugo Boss/Renner**

**a) Cartography of Touch** 
- Mapping groups of what is left interactive to be touched
- what senses are used in the interaction with those - affordances/feedbacks (can those senses [sensibility] be turned on/off?)

**b) Textures bestiary** 
- Map of most touched textures: small definition on the texture
- textural proprieties (physical-how user's feel them virtualxphysical product/digital-material propreties)

#### 3. UI
**Apple**

**a) Cartography of Touch** 
- Mapping groups of what can be touched and cannot be touched
- what senses are used in the interaction with those - affordances/feedbacks (can those senses [sensibility] be turned on/off?)

**b) Textures bestiary** 
Map of most touched textures: small definition on the texture
- textural proprieties (physical-how user's "feel" them/digital-material propreties)

#### 4. Animation
**Installation: Glacier Dreams (Refik Anadol)**

**a) Cartography of Touch** 
- Mapping groups of textures installation
- what senses are used in the interaction with those - affordances/feedbacks

**b) Textures bestiary** 
- Map of textures: small definition on the texture
- textural proprieties (physical-how user's "feel" them/digital-material propreties;data; AI prompts)

#### Interviews topics: 
1. **3D Texturing** - how digital objects and environments are tactilely designed and understood
2. **Physical > Digital material translation** - how the touchable properties of materials can be transferred and communicated in the digital space
3. **Hybrid Touch** - how we can think and design tactile interactions for hybrid experiences.


### Chapter3: Analysis - creation of augmented Touch scenarios
- Haptic Interface Technology
- How would our everyday life's change in a world where objects could change/adapt the way they felt (their textures) in real time?
- Werematerials - materials that can change the way they feel. Materials that are fluid/soft and can be weared and by doing so changing the way objects/people are felt/present themselves to other senseable beings.
- How to play with touch and its meanings?

- Prototypes: augmented Touch prototype samples: soft material samples that can change texture/surface patterns